Add a security checklist for clusters (#33992)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/concepts/security/security-checklist.md

The order of topics does not reflect an order of priority.

<!-- body -->

## Authentication & Authorization

See the [Role Based Access Control Good
Practices](/docs/concepts/security/rbac-good-practices/) for information
related to authentication and authorization.

<!-- New authentication certificates should be generated on new clusters that avoid -->
<!-- the use of the `system:masters`. `system:masters` should be used as a -->
<!-- break-glass mechanism as opposed to an admin user. -->

## Network security

A number of Container Network Interfaces (CNIs) provide functionality to
restrict network resources pods may communicate with. This is most commonly done
through [Network Policies](/docs/concepts/services-networking/network-policies/)
which provide a namespaced resource to define rules.

Not all CNIs provide encryption in transit. If the chosen CNI lacks this
feature, an alternative solution could be to use a service mesh to provide that
functionality.

The `etcd` datastore of the control plane should have controls to limit access.
Furthermore, mutual TLS (mTLS) should be used to communicate securely with it.
The certificate authority for this should be unique to `etcd`.

> 

Reviewer: In addition, the Internet access to the Kubernetes API server should be restricted. 
If a Cloud provider is used for hosting Kubernetes, the access from pods to the Cloud metadata API (169.254.196.254) should also be restricted, or blocked if not needed.

Author: I could not find any documentation related to "not expose the API server publicly" in the docs, only in cloud providers' docs! Neither for the Cloud metadata API thing that is leaking stuff. It would definitely be a good addition! Thanks a lot!

Author: ```suggestion
In addition, external Internet access to the Kubernetes API server should be restricted to not expose the API publicly. You can then use a bastion host to access the server. If a cloud provider is used for hosting Kubernetes, the access from pods to the cloud metadata API (169.254.196.254) should also be restricted or blocked if not needed because it can leak information.
```

Reviewer: yes, it should be 169.254.169.254. Thanks a lot!

Author: ```suggestion
In addition, external Internet access to the Kubernetes API server should be restricted
to not expose the API publicly. You can then use a bastion host to access the server. 
If a cloud provider is used for hosting Kubernetes, the access from pods to the cloud 
metadata API `169.254.169.254` should also be restricted or blocked if not needed 
because it may leak information.
```

## Pod security

RBAC authorization is crucial but [cannot be specific enough on the Pods
resource](/docs/concepts/security/rbac-good-practices/#workload-creation) (or
on any resource that manages Pods). The only granularity is the API verbs on the
resource itself, for example `create` on Pods. Indeed, without additional
admission, the authorization to create these resources allows direct
unrestricted access to on the schedulable nodes of a cluster.

[Pod Security Admission](/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-admission/) is an
admission controller to enable fine-grained authorization of Pod creation and
updates. It replaces the deprecated (as v1.21) [Pod Security
Policy](/docs/concepts/policy/pod-security-policy/) admission controller. The
[Pod Security Standard](/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-standards/) dive
deeper into the fields that can be restricted via the predefined profiles. For
a hands-on tutorial on Pod Security, see the blog post "[Kubernetes 1.23: Pod
Security Graduates to Beta](/blog/2021/12/09/pod-security-admission-beta/)".

{{< note >}}

> [PodSecurityPolicy](http://localhost:1313/docs/concepts/policy/pod-security-policy/)

Author: ```suggestion
[PodSecurityPolicy](/docs/concepts/policy/pod-security-policy/)
```
oops!

will be removed in version 1.25.
{{< /note >}}

> 

Author: ```suggestion
Pod Security admission `restricted` policy can enforce or even warn of the part of the [security context](/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/security-context/) that must be properly set. Nevertheless, pods' [security context](/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/security-context/) should be separately investigated to limit the privileges and access pods may have.

[Memory and CPU limits](/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/) should be set in order to restrict the memory and CPU resources a pod can consume on a node, and therefore prevent potential DoS attacks.
```

application pod and the Kubernetes API server, should be deployed onto separate
nodes. This separation should be enforced to prevent pods accidentally being
deployed onto the same node. This could be enforced with the following features:

- [Node Selectors](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/assign-pod-node/) are
  key-value pairs as part of the pod specification that specifies which nodes
  to deploy onto. These can be enforced at the namespace and cluster level with
  the
  [PodNodeSelector](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/#podnodeselector)
  admission controller.
- [PodTolerationRestriction](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/#podtolerationrestriction)
  is an admission controller that allows administrators to add permitted
  [tolerations](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/taint-and-toleration/)
  within a namespace. Pods within that namespace may only utilise those
  specified in the namespace.

## Secrets

- Secrets required for pods should be stored within Kubernetes secrets as
  opposed to alternatives such as ConfigMap.
- Pods with secrets should have these automatically mounted through volumes.

>   This would allow adding secrets into the pod as environment variables or

Reviewer: Pods with secrets should have these automatically mounted through volumes during the start of the pod.
This would allow adding secrets into the pod as files on the filesystem.

Author: I see you remove the part about env variables, do you want maybe to emphasise that env variables should be avoided for secrets, because of stack trace env dumps etc.? I think this would be also a nice note/warning for the [Secrets](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/) doc page?

Reviewer: Yes, it would make sense to mention here, that env variables should not be used for secrets

Production.

The blog post "[A Closter Look at NSA/CISA Kubernetes Hardening
Guidance](/blog/2021/10/05/nsa-cisa-kubernetes-hardening-guidance/#building-secure-container-images)"
provides more guidance on how to build secure container images.

## Enabling seccomp

Seccomp can improve the security of your workloads by reducing the Linux kernel
syscall attack surface available inside containers. The seccomp filter mode
leverages BPF to create allow or deny list of specific syscalls, named
profiles. Those seccomp profiles can be enabled on individual workloads, [a
security tutorial is available](/docs/tutorials/security/seccomp/). In
addition, the [Kubernetes Security Profiles
Operator](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/security-profiles-operator) is a
project to facilitate the management and use of seccomp in clusters.

Please note that Docker has been using [a default seccomp
profile](https://docs.docker.com/engine/security/seccomp/) to only allow a
restricted set of syscalls but Kubernetes is still not confining workloads by
default. Fortunately, [Seccomp Default](/blog/2021/08/25/seccomp-default/), a
new alpha feature to use a default seccomp profile for all workloads can now be

> enabled and tested.

Author: I think we could merge that into Pod Security?

> enabled and tested.

Reviewer: It is not really part of the Security Context, but it definitely would fit in the "Pod Security" section. 
Seccomp on the other hand is now part of the Security Context. So either it could be added to the Security Context section or placed directly below it.

  within a namespace. Pods within that namespace may only utilise those
  specified in the namespace.

## Secrets

- Secrets required for pods should be stored within Kubernetes secrets as
  opposed to alternatives such as ConfigMap.
- Pods with secrets should have these automatically mounted through volumes.
  This would allow adding secrets into the pod as environment variables or
  files on the filesystem. This should be done preferentially as compared to
  providing the pods service account RBAC access to the secret.
- Secret resources stored within etcd should be
  [encrypted at rest](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/encrypt-data/).
- Service accounts should not be mounted into pods that do not require them.
  This can be configured by setting
  [`automountServiceAccountToken`](/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/#use-the-default-service-account-to-access-the-api-server)
  to `false` either within the service account to apply throughout the
  namespace or specifically for a pod.
- Kubernetes v1.22 and above - Utilise
  [Bound Service Accounts](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/service-accounts-admin/#bound-service-account-token-volume)

>   for time-bound service account credentials.

Author: I was wondering if this part belongs to the Secrets or the Pod Security part?

> 

Reviewer: I think this section is very specific, and if you use a cloud provider for your Kubernetes cluster, as far as I know you cannot change the settings of the Kubelet at all. So personally I would not add this section to the checklist. - But this is just my opinion.

> 

Reviewer 2: If I remember correct, some cloud vendors have this admission controller configured, but its not often used.
I also agree with your opinion, its specific and depends a bit on the Kubernetes 'vendor'.

> 

Reviewer 3: I personally think we should still add it, not everyone deploys Kubernetes with a cloud provider. Maybe we add a sub section somewhere specifically for what security considerations should be different when using a cloud provider based cluster.

> 

Author: If it's generic and general enough I think it might be adapted for a section on this checklist! Being limited by what cannot be modified because of X or Y cloud provider offer is not a good idea because it can greatly vary between different distributions. It might be a better idea to suppose a "vanilla" distribution and add information that might be relevant to *most* of the managed solutions.

> 

Author: Hey @p4ck3t0, I added a section about admission controllers thanks to @Skybound1 here https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/33992/commits/48c960490bf8ec7268cd193da7910d86c1e98e4a, if you want, you can add precisions about `NodeRestriction` here.

> 

Author: Resolved by https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/33992/commits/2672d212fa9585eea7acda2028c2757461ecd2f7.

---
reviewers:
title: Security Checklist
description: >
  Recommended checklist for ensuring security in Kubernetes clusters.
content_type: concept
---

<!-- overview -->

This checklist aims at providing a basic list of guidance with links to more
comprehensive documentation on each topic. It does not claim to be exhaustive
and is meant to evolve.

The order of topics does not reflect an order of priority.

<!-- body -->

## Authentication & Authorization

See the [Role Based Access Control Good Practices](/docs/concepts/security/rbac-good-practices/)
for information related to authentication and authorization.

<!-- New authentication certificates should be generated on new clusters that avoid -->
<!-- the use of the `system:masters`. `system:masters` should be used as a -->
<!-- break-glass mechanism as opposed to an admin user. -->

## Network security

> A number of Container Network Interfaces (CNIs) provide functionality to

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
A number of [Container Network Interfaces](https://github.com/containernetworking/cni) (CNIs) provide functionality to
```

Author: ```suggestion
A number of [Container Network Interface (CNI) plugins](/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/compute-storage-net/network-plugins/)
plugins provide the functionality to
```

Author: Great idea for the link, I didn't notice the confusion between the CNI and CNI plugins that were made in the checklist. So I fixed this and put the link to the network plugins doc, that features a link to the CNI, that's an indirection!

restrict network resources pods may communicate with. This is most commonly done

> through [Network Policies](/docs/concepts/services-networking/network-policies/)

Author: Your comment piqued my curiosity 😄! To my knowledge, [network policies do need a CNI plugin to be enforced](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/network-policies/#prerequisites). Can you explain further what was your idea?

> through [Network Policies](/docs/concepts/services-networking/network-policies/)

Author: Ok really no problem, I was genuinely curious :D! Thanks for the clarification, really no worries.

which provide a namespaced resource to define rules.

> Not all CNIs provide encryption in transit. If the chosen CNI lacks this

Author: ```suggestion
Not all CNI plugins provide encryption in transit. If the chosen plugin lacks this
```

Furthermore, mutual TLS (mTLS) should be used to communicate securely with it.
The certificate authority for this should be unique to `etcd`.
In addition, external Internet access to the Kubernetes API server should be restricted
to not expose the API publicly. You can then use a bastion host to access the server.
If a cloud provider is used for hosting Kubernetes, the access from pods to the cloud
metadata API `169.254.169.254` should also be restricted or blocked if not needed
because it may leak information.

## Pod security

RBAC authorization is crucial but
[cannot be specific enough on the Pods resource](/docs/concepts/security/rbac-good-practices/#workload-creation)
(or on any resource that manages Pods). The only granularity is the API verbs
on the resource itself, for example `create` on Pods. Indeed, without
additional admission, the authorization to create these resources allows direct
unrestricted access to on the schedulable nodes of a cluster.

[Pod Security Admission](/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-admission/) is an
admission controller to enable fine-grained authorization of Pod creation and

> updates. It replaces the deprecated (as v1.21)
> [Pod Security Policy](/docs/concepts/policy/pod-security-policy/) admission
> controller. The [Pod Security Standard](/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-standards/)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
updates. It replaces the deprecated (as v1.21)
[Pod Security Policy](/docs/concepts/policy/pod-security-policy/) admission
controller. The [Pod Security Standard](/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-standards/)
```
The Pod Security Policy page might be removed when 1.25 is released

Reviewer 3: We could just remove the link and just reference PSP by name? That way at least people who know PSP can read that its replaced and what by

Author: ```suggestion
updates. It replaces the Pod Security Policy admission controller. 
[Pod Security Standards](/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-standards/)
```

> [Pod Security Standards](/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-standards/)
> dive deeper into the fields that can be restricted via the predefined profiles.

Author: ```suggestion
The [Pod Security Standards](/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-standards/)
define three different policies that restrict how fields can be set in the `PodSpec`.
```

For a hands-on tutorial on Pod Security, see the blog post
"[Kubernetes 1.23: Pod Security Graduates to Beta](/blog/2021/12/09/pod-security-admission-beta/)".

{{< note >}}
[PodSecurityPolicy](/docs/concepts/policy/pod-security-policy/)
will be removed in version 1.25.
{{< /note >}}
Pod Security admission `restricted` policy can enforce or even warn of the part of the
[security context](/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/security-context/) that must
be properly set. Nevertheless, pods' [security context](/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/security-context/)
should be separately investigated to limit the privileges and access pods may have.

[Memory and CPU limits](/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/)
should be set in order to restrict the memory and CPU resources a pod can consume on
a node, and therefore prevent potential DoS attacks.

> ## Enabling seccomp

Reviewer 6: If this is a checklist, we should bear in mind that:
- not all clusters would let you enable seccomp
- “enabling” isn't something you check off; you would check off “seccomp is enabled and in use for all Linux nodes” or similar.

Think about whether we want to insist on _both_ seccomp and AppArmor, or if we want to insist on at least one of those mechanisms.

Reviewer 2: Maybe we could add an *Additional Security* section for this? :thinking:

Author: It seems to me that seccomp and AppArmor are different mechanisms with different purposes. Like you cannot block syscalls with AppArmor and that's the whole point of seccomp(-BPF). So ideally you can use both of them.

Reviewer 6: Windows nodes :wink:
We shouldn't make a checklist that accidentally always fails any cluster that only uses Windows nodes.

Author: > Also, I'd make this a 3rd level heading: seccomp is part of Pod security.

We discussed that a little bit here https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/33992#discussion_r885587185. I agree that from a technical point of view, it could belong to the pod security, as well as AppArmor (even if it only relies on annotations for now).

Author: I added a note to precise that these two are Linux-only and that AppArmor is even more restricted. I also moved them into Pod Security, since there is a KEP going on to finally make AppArmor GA and put its annotation in a PodSecurityContext field, so it should make sense! It's here https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/33992/commits/9999e18274a6306733f073437bb9eae17d8e3430.

Seccomp can improve the security of your workloads by reducing the Linux kernel
syscall attack surface available inside containers. The seccomp filter mode
leverages BPF to create allow or deny list of specific syscalls, named
profiles. Those seccomp profiles can be enabled on individual workloads,
[a security tutorial is available](/docs/tutorials/security/seccomp/). In
addition, the [Kubernetes Security Profiles Operator](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/security-profiles-operator)
is a project to facilitate the management and use of seccomp in clusters.

Please note that Docker has been using
[a default seccomp profile](https://docs.docker.com/engine/security/seccomp/)
to only allow a restricted set of syscalls but Kubernetes is still not
confining workloads by default. Fortunately,
[Seccomp Default](/blog/2021/08/25/seccomp-default/), a new alpha feature to
use a default seccomp profile for all workloads can now be enabled and tested.

> 

Author: Done here https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/33992/commits/198be596b458ca135a02edc8334aa26aa36f3204 thanks to @p4ck3t0 😃.

> 

Reviewer 2: ## Enabling AppArmor

[AppArmor](https://apparmor.net/) can provide an easy way for Mandatory Access Control (MAC) and can provide better auditing through system logs. To [enable AppArmor in Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tutorials/security/apparmor/) at least Kubernetes version v1.4 is required. Like seccomp, AppArmor is also configured through profiles, where each profile is either running in enforcing mode, which blocks access to disallowed resources, or complain mode, which only reports violations. AppArmor profiles are defined per container, with an annotation, allowing for each pod to gain just the right privileges.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Enabling AppArmor

[AppArmor](https://apparmor.net/) can provide an easy way for Mandatory Access Control (MAC) and can provide better auditing through system logs. To [enable AppArmor in Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tutorials/security/apparmor/) at least Kubernetes version v1.4 is required. Like seccomp, AppArmor is also configured through profiles, where each profile is either running in enforcing mode, which blocks access to disallowed resources, or complain mode, which only reports violations. AppArmor profiles are defined per container, with an annotation, allowing for each pod to gain just the right privileges. 
```

Reviewer 6: If this is a checklist, we should bear in mind that:
- not all clusters would let you enable AppArmor
- “enabling” isn't something you check off; you would check off “AppArmor is enabled and in use for all Linux nodes” or similar.

Author: Yes! It feels like we can continue like we are currently doing to add content and then we will write the checklist at the top of the document. And as you specify, we might need to rewrite some headers!

Most Linux distros ship with AppArmor right?

Author: ```suggestion
## Enabling AppArmor

[AppArmor](https://apparmor.net/) can provide an easy way to implement
Mandatory Access Control (MAC) and better auditing through system logs.
To [enable AppArmor in Kubernetes](/docs/tutorials/security/apparmor/), at least
version 1.4 is required. Like seccomp, AppArmor is also configured
through profiles, where each profile is either running in enforcing mode, which
blocks access to disallowed resources or complain mode, which only reports
violations. AppArmor profiles are enforced on a per-container basis, with an
annotation, allowing for processes to gain just the right privileges. 
```
I modified it a little bit the paragraph, I just have some concerns because some parts of it are copy-pastes from another page "where each profile is either running in enforcing mode, which blocks access to disallowed resources, or complain mode, which only reports violations".

Reviewer 2: > Yes! It feels like we can continue like we are currently doing to add content and then we will write the checklist at the top of the document. And as you specify, we might need to rewrite some headers!
> 
> Most Linux distros ship with AppArmor right?

I will add one sentence about this. What requirements to meet to use it.

Author: Resolved by this https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/33992/commits/9999e18274a6306733f073437bb9eae17d8e3430.

  is an admission controller that allows administrators to add permitted
  [tolerations](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/taint-and-toleration/)
  within a namespace. Pods within that namespace may only utilise those
  specified in the namespace.

## Secrets

Secrets required for pods should be stored within Kubernetes Secrets as opposed
to alternatives such as ConfigMap. Secret resources stored within etcd should
be [encrypted at rest](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/encrypt-data/).

Pods needing secrets should have these automatically mounted through volumes,
preferably stored in memory like with the
[`emptyDir.medium` option](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#emptydir).
This should be done preferentially as compared to providing the pods service
account RBAC access to secrets. This would allow adding secrets into the pod as
environment variables or files. However, the environment variable method might
be more prone to leakage due to crash dumps in logs and the non-confidential
nature of environment variable in Linux, as opposed to the permission mechanism
on files.

> 

Author: I tried something with [379f5c4](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/33992/commits/379f5c4cff4e58ec758541da86814332186ab38d).

[`automountServiceAccountToken`](/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/#use-the-default-service-account-to-access-the-api-server)
to `false` either within the service account to apply throughout the namespace
or specifically for a pod. For Kubernetes v1.22 and above, use
[Bound Service Accounts](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/service-accounts-admin/#bound-service-account-token-volume)
for time-bound service account credentials.

## Container & Image scanning

Scanning a container image can prevent critical vulnerabilities from being
deployed to the cluster alongside the container image. Image scanning should be
completed before deploying a container image to a cluster and is usually done
as part of the deployment process in a CI/CD pipeline. The purpose of an image
scan is to obtain information about possible vulnerabilities and their
prevention in the container image, such as a
[Common Vulnerability Scoring System (CVSS)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Common_Vulnerability_Scoring_System)
score. If the result of the image scans is combined with the pipeline
compliance rules, only properly patched container images will end up in
Production.

> 

Reviewer 7: Might it be good to point towards CIS benchmark as well.

https://www.cisecurity.org/benchmark/kubernetes

Also pointing to kube-bench or similar tools.
https://github.com/aquasecurity/kube-bench

Reviewer 6: Our [actual guide](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/style/content-guide/#what-s-allowed) to what's allowed.

If the guide isn't clear, PRs (or issues) against the guide are welcome!

Reviewer 7: @sftim it's very clear. The question is if it's good :)
But that is for another PR i guess <3

Author: Regarding the guide, is there anything that you still want to add @NissesSenap?

Author: I will resolve this thread since it's almost three months old!

feature, an alternative solution could be to use a service mesh to provide that
functionality.

The `etcd` datastore of the control plane should have controls to limit access.
Furthermore, mutual TLS (mTLS) should be used to communicate securely with it.
The certificate authority for this should be unique to `etcd`.
In addition, external Internet access to the Kubernetes API server should be restricted
to not expose the API publicly. You can then use a bastion host to access the server.
If a cloud provider is used for hosting Kubernetes, the access from pods to the cloud
metadata API `169.254.169.254` should also be restricted or blocked if not needed
because it may leak information.

## Pod security

RBAC authorization is crucial but
[cannot be specific enough on the Pods resource](/docs/concepts/security/rbac-good-practices/#workload-creation)
(or on any resource that manages Pods). The only granularity is the API verbs
on the resource itself, for example `create` on Pods. Indeed, without
additional admission, the authorization to create these resources allows direct
unrestricted access to on the schedulable nodes of a cluster.

> [Pod Security Admission](/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-admission/) is an

Reviewer 3: Is it worth adding something that says a webhook admission controller could be used should finer grain control compared to pod security admission be required? Thinking of things like OPA, Kyverno, etc.. of course it doesn't need ot mention them by name

Reviewer 6: For a checklist, I think people could pick from a menu:
- Pod Security admission only
- webhook admission control and external service, only
- webhook admission control and external service _plus_ Pod Security admission

This can be two different checklist-type items:
1. I have one of the above in place
1. I have evaluated my choice from that menu against my information security needs

Reviewer 6: > webhook admission control and external service _plus_ Pod Security admission

This feels like good defence in depth: if you break your OPA config, you can still enforce the baseline Pod Security Standard for all the namespaces you labelled.

Author: I tried to clarify that here https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/33992/commits/eb962b4c124212b0c3cf2a01a93aba9bc251cb7c.

to `false` either within the service account to apply throughout the namespace
or specifically for a pod. For Kubernetes v1.22 and above, use
[Bound Service Accounts](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/service-accounts-admin/#bound-service-account-token-volume)
for time-bound service account credentials.

## Container & Image scanning

Scanning a container image can prevent critical vulnerabilities from being
deployed to the cluster alongside the container image. Image scanning should be
completed before deploying a container image to a cluster and is usually done
as part of the deployment process in a CI/CD pipeline. The purpose of an image
scan is to obtain information about possible vulnerabilities and their
prevention in the container image, such as a
[Common Vulnerability Scoring System (CVSS)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Common_Vulnerability_Scoring_System)
score. If the result of the image scans is combined with the pipeline
compliance rules, only properly patched container images will end up in
Production.

The blog post

> "[A Closter Look at NSA/CISA Kubernetes Hardening Guidance](/blog/2021/10/05/nsa-cisa-kubernetes-hardening-guidance/#building-secure-container-images)"

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
[A Closer Look at NSA/CISA Kubernetes Hardening Guidance](/blog/2021/10/05/nsa-cisa-kubernetes-hardening-guidance/#building-secure-container-images)
```

> provides more guidance on how to build secure container images.

Reviewer 3: Made a super quick list, but I may have missed some.. 

```suggestion
provides more guidance on how to build secure container images.

## Admission Controllers

The following are a number of admission controllers that could be considered to help increase the security posture of your application, this list includes controllers that may be referenced in other areas of this document:

- `AlwaysPullImages` - Enforces the latest version of a tagged image is used, and the deployer has permissions to use the image
- `DenyServiceExternalIPs` - Prevents usage of `externalIPs` services
- `EventRateLimit` - Rate limts events to the API server
- `ImagePolicyWebhook` - Allows enforcing additional controls for images through webhooks
- `MutatingAdmissionWebhook` - Allows the use of custom controllers through webhooks, these controllers may mutate requests that it reviews
- `NodeRestriction` - Restricts Kubelet permissions based of deployments upon their nodes
- `PodNodeSelector` - Allows controls of node selectors within namespaces and cluster-wide
- `PodSecurity` - Replacement for Pod Security Policy, restricts security contexts of deployed Pods
- `PodTolerationRestriction` - Allows control of pod tolerations permitted for pods within a namespace
- `ResourceQuota` - Enforces resource quotas to prevent over-usage of resources
- `ValidatingAdmissionWebhook` - Allows the use of custom controllers through webhooks, these controllers do not mutate requests that it reviews
```

Author: Ok I added the three mentioned by Tim, put hyperlinks and a note.
```suggestion
## Admission Controllers

The following are a number of admission controllers that could be considered to
enhance the security posture of your application. This list includes
controllers that may be referenced in other parts of this document:

- [`AlwaysPullImages`](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/#alwayspullimages)
  \- Enforces the latest version of a tagged image is used, and the deployer has
    permissions to use the image.
- [`CertificateApproval`](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/#certificateapproval)
  \- Performs additional authorization checks to ensure the approving user
    permission to approve certificate request.
- [`CertificateSigning`](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/#certificatesigning)
  \- Performs an additional authorization checks to ensure the signing user has
    permission to sign certificate requests.
- [`CertificateSubjectRestriction`](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/#certificatesubjectrestriction)
  \- Rejects any request that specifies a 'group' (or 'organization attribute')
    of `system:masters`.
- [`DenyServiceExternalIPs`](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/#denyserviceexternalips)
  \- Prevents usage of `externalIPs` services
- [`EventRateLimit`](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/#eventratelimit)
  \- Rate limts events to the API server.
- [`ImagePolicyWebhook`](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/#imagepolicywebhook)
  \- Allows enforcing additional controls for images through webhooks.
- [`MutatingAdmissionWebhook`](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/#mutatingadmissionwebhook)
  \- Allows the use of custom controllers through webhooks, these controllers
    may mutate requests that it reviews.
- [`NodeRestriction`](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/#noderestriction)
  \- Restricts Kubelet permissions based of deployments upon their nodes.
- [`PodNodeSelector`](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/#podnodeselector)
  \- Allows controls of node selectors within namespaces and cluster-wide.
- [`PodSecurity`](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/#podsecurity)
  \- Replacement for Pod Security Policy, restricts security contexts of
    deployed Pods.
- [`PodTolerationRestriction`](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/#podtolerationrestriction)
  \- Allows control of pod tolerations permitted for pods within a namespace.
- [`ResourceQuota`](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/#resourcequota)
  \- Enforces resource quotas to prevent over-usage of resources.
- [`ValidatingAdmissionWebhook`](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/#validatingadmissionwebhook)
  \- Allows the use of custom controllers through webhooks, these controllers do
    not mutate requests that it reviews.

{{< note >}}
Many of these admission controllers are [enabled by default](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/#which-plugins-are-enabled-by-default) by the API server.
{{< /note >}}
```

[Memory and CPU limits](/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/)
should be set in order to restrict the memory and CPU resources a pod can consume on
a node, and therefore prevent potential DoS attacks.

## Enabling seccomp

Seccomp can improve the security of your workloads by reducing the Linux kernel
syscall attack surface available inside containers. The seccomp filter mode
leverages BPF to create allow or deny list of specific syscalls, named
profiles. Those seccomp profiles can be enabled on individual workloads,
[a security tutorial is available](/docs/tutorials/security/seccomp/). In
addition, the [Kubernetes Security Profiles Operator](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/security-profiles-operator)
is a project to facilitate the management and use of seccomp in clusters.

Please note that Docker has been using
[a default seccomp profile](https://docs.docker.com/engine/security/seccomp/)
to only allow a restricted set of syscalls but Kubernetes is still not
confining workloads by default. Fortunately,
[Seccomp Default](/blog/2021/08/25/seccomp-default/), a new alpha feature to
use a default seccomp profile for all workloads can now be enabled and tested.

> ## Enabling AppArmor
> 
> [AppArmor](https://apparmor.net/) can provide an easy way to implement
> Mandatory Access Control (MAC) and better auditing through system logs.
> To [enable AppArmor in Kubernetes](/docs/tutorials/security/apparmor/), at least
> version 1.4 is required. Like seccomp, AppArmor is also configured
> through profiles, where each profile is either running in enforcing mode, which
> blocks access to disallowed resources or complain mode, which only reports
> violations. AppArmor profiles are enforced on a per-container basis, with an
> annotation, allowing for processes to gain just the right privileges. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Enabling AppArmor

[AppArmor](https://apparmor.net/) can provide an easy way to implement Mandatory Access Control (MAC) and better auditing through system logs. Most modern Linux Operating Systems have the AppArmor Linux Security Module preinstalled. To [enable AppArmor in Kubernetes](/docs/tutorials/security/apparmor/), at least version 1.4 is required. Like seccomp, AppArmor is also configured through profiles, where each profile is either running in enforcing mode, which blocks access to disallowed resources or complain mode, which only reports violations. AppArmor profiles are enforced on a per-container basis, with an annotation, allowing for processes to gain just the right privileges.
```

Author: I added a note about that in Seccomp and AppArmor in https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/33992/commits/9999e18274a6306733f073437bb9eae17d8e3430.

  \- Performs an additional authorization checks to ensure the signing user has
    permission to sign certificate requests.
- [`CertificateSubjectRestriction`](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/#certificatesubjectrestriction)
  \- Rejects any certificate request that specifies a 'group' (or 'organization attribute')
    of `system:masters`.
- [`DenyServiceExternalIPs`](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/#denyserviceexternalips)
  \- Prevents usage of `externalIPs` services
- [`EventRateLimit`](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/#eventratelimit)
  \- Rate limts events to the API server.
- [`ImagePolicyWebhook`](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/#imagepolicywebhook)
  \- Allows enforcing additional controls for images through webhooks.
- [`MutatingAdmissionWebhook`](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/#mutatingadmissionwebhook)
  \- Allows the use of custom controllers through webhooks, these controllers
    may mutate requests that it reviews.
- [`NodeRestriction`](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/#noderestriction)

>   \- Restricts Kubelet permissions based of deployments upon their nodes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
\- This admission controller can increase security when labels with a `node-restriction.kubernetes.io/` prefix are used. Only the administrator can update those labels and even the kubelet can not modify them. It can prevent an attacker with access to kubelet credentials from modifying node labels and thus influence the pod placement, when e.g. `NodeSelectors` are used.
```

Author: Resolve by https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/33992/commits/2672d212fa9585eea7acda2028c2757461ecd2f7.

---
reviewers:
title: Security Checklist
description: >

>   Recommended checklist for ensuring security in Kubernetes clusters.

Reviewer 6: Rather than Recommended, how about something like “Suggested” or “Baseline”?

Author: Exact, this will be well with the proposed disclaimer here https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/33992#issuecomment-1169051227.

Author: I did this https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/33992/commits/dc40e98e11b7b68f23f846243dbbe1e3b3e9aff9, I'm not exactly sure how I can use a caution thing but it makes sense to me!

content_type: concept
---

<!-- overview -->

This checklist aims at providing a basic list of guidance with links to more
comprehensive documentation on each topic. It does not claim to be exhaustive
and is meant to evolve.

The order of topics does not reflect an order of priority.

<!-- body -->

## Authentication & Authorization

> - [ ] `system:masters` group is not routinely used for authentication.

Reviewer 6: After bootstrapping, neither users **nor components** should authenticate to the Kubernetes API as `system:masters`. The guidance needs to tell you that running all of `kube-controller-manager` as `system:masters` is also not best practice.

> - [ ] `system:masters` group is not routinely used for authentication.

Author: Is it better with this? https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/33992/commits/07a79e01c5e8319cc94b64175aa73e6687528db1

- [ ] The root certificate is protected (either an offline CA, or a managed
  online CA with effective access controls)
- [ ] Intermediate and leaf certificates have an expiry date no more than 3
  years in the future.
- [ ] A process exists for periodic access review, and reviews occur no more
  than 24 months apart

> - [ ] Kube-controller-manager is running with

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- [ ] The kube-controller-manager is running with
```

plugins provide the functionality to
restrict network resources pods may communicate with. This is most commonly done
through [Network Policies](/docs/concepts/services-networking/network-policies/)
which provide a namespaced resource to define rules.

Not all CNI plugins provide encryption in transit. If the chosen plugin lacks this
feature, an alternative solution could be to use a service mesh to provide that
functionality.

The `etcd` datastore of the control plane should have controls to limit access.
Furthermore, mutual TLS (mTLS) should be used to communicate securely with it.
The certificate authority for this should be unique to `etcd`.

External Internet access to the Kubernetes API server should be restricted
to not expose the API publicly. You can then use a bastion host to access the server.

If a cloud provider is used for hosting Kubernetes, the access from pods to the cloud
metadata API `169.254.169.254` should also be restricted or blocked if not needed
because it may leak information.

## Pod security

- [ ] RBAC right to `create` workloads is only granted if necessary.

> - [ ] Appropriate pod security is enforced for all workloads.

Reviewer 4: Question: Is this referring to pod security policies? Or security practices in general?

Author: Mmmh you are right, this one might be way too broad and not that useful, I will precise this!

evaluated on their merits.
{{< /caution >}}

<!-- body -->

## Authentication & Authorization

- [ ] `system:masters` group is not used for user or component authentication after bootstrapping.
- [ ] The kube-controller-manager is running with `--use-service-account-credentials`
  enabled.
- [ ] The root certificate is protected (either an offline CA, or a managed
  online CA with effective access controls).
- [ ] Intermediate and leaf certificates have an expiry date no more than 3
  years in the future.
- [ ] A process exists for periodic access review, and reviews occur no more
  than 24 months apart.

See the [Role Based Access Control Good Practices](/docs/concepts/security/rbac-good-practices/)
for guidance related to authentication and authorization.

After bootstrapping, neither users nor components should authenticate to the
Kubernetes API as `system:masters`. Similarly, running all of
kube-controller-manager as `system:masters` should be avoided. In fact,
`system:masters` should only be used as a break-glass mechanism, as opposed to
an admin user.

## Network security

- [ ] CNI plugins in-use supports network policies.

> - [ ] Network policies to filter how workloads and services can communicate

Reviewer 8: Would it be worth having an entry here for something like "ensure that ingress and egress network policies are applied to all workloads in the cluster" it's quite possible to miss some workloads with the way that network policies are implemented (i.e. either missing a namespace or not applying policies to all workloads in a namespace)

Reviewer 3: Could say there there should be default network policies within each namespace that select all pods, and don't allow nothing, or just basic things like DNS or something along those lines :thinking:

Reviewer 8: Yep I think mentioning that there should be default polices in each namespace that apply to all workloads is a good way to put it as once there's one network policy applying to a workload additional access needs to be white-listed.

Author: Tried to fix that with commit https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/33992/commits/6731b861f0ca0fee1c4809f9ccbe9c92d235d24f.

  inside of the cluster are enabled.

> - [ ] Use of a service mesh to encrypt all communications inside of the cluster.

Reviewer 5: Do we want to scope this checklist to Kubernetes and not third-party tools
Which is difficult because there are third-party things Kubernetes needs like a CNI plugin and CRI-compliant container runtime
I can be persuaded either way

Author: We had many discussions about third-party tools (for example here https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/33992#pullrequestreview-993832115) and I think the conclusion was that it was a bit impossible to do so on a doc page. The only thing we could do is to link to CNCF pages, blogs or landscape parts that contain projects amongst the community for these topics!

I think if we did add many links to third-party stuff, it will take a majority of all the hyperlinks on the page, look at what was done here https://github.com/Vinum-Security/kubernetes-security-checklist. The work is truly great but there are a lot of links to third-party tools (which make sense in the context of Kubernetes security I guess).

> - [ ] The Kubernetes API is not exposed publicly on Internet.

Reviewer 8: Do we want to mention Kubelet and etcd here as well? Just thinking that it's no unknown for people to put the kubelet on the Internet (IIRC shodan has ~232,000 kubelets) and there are some etcds too although fewer.

Author: Wow yes definitely, kubelet or etcd exposed on the internet is dramatic! Especially with the bad default of kubelet when not configured via a config file but only the flag.

Author: Tried to fix this here https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/33992/commits/cb1bcfcee07965b57127c907a1192d78abd9d07c.

A number of [Container Network Interface (CNI) plugins](/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/compute-storage-net/network-plugins/)
plugins provide the functionality to
restrict network resources pods may communicate with. This is most commonly done
through [Network Policies](/docs/concepts/services-networking/network-policies/)
which provide a namespaced resource to define rules.

Not all CNI plugins provide encryption in transit. If the chosen plugin lacks this
feature, an alternative solution could be to use a service mesh to provide that
functionality.

The `etcd` datastore of the control plane should have controls to limit access.
Furthermore, mutual TLS (mTLS) should be used to communicate securely with it.
The certificate authority for this should be unique to `etcd`.

External Internet access to the Kubernetes API server should be restricted
to not expose the API publicly. You can then use a bastion host to access the server.

If a cloud provider is used for hosting Kubernetes, the access from pods to the cloud
metadata API `169.254.169.254` should also be restricted or blocked if not needed
because it may leak information.

## Pod security

> - [ ] RBAC right to `create` workloads is only granted if necessary.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- [ ] RBAC rights to `create`, `update`, `patch`, `delete` workloads is only granted if necessary.
```
What do you think of adding these additional rights

Author: Yes definitely, I wanted to highlight the `create` one because it's especially critical but the other ones are also super important! Would it be relevant to highlight the `create` one?
```suggestion
- [ ] RBAC rights to **`create`**, `update`, `patch`, `delete` workloads is only granted if necessary.
```

- [ ] Appropriate pod security is enforced for all workloads.
- [ ] Memory and CPU limits are set for the workloads.
- [ ] For nodes that support it, Seccomp is enabled with appropriate syscalls
  profile for applications written or generated.

> - [ ] For nodes that support it, AppArmor is enabled with appropriate profile

Reviewer 8: We might want to add SELinux here , possibly just on the same line as AppArmor, as it tends to be one or the other.

Author: Tried to fix this with https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/33992/commits/f14e2e6797e29c392a55bd0446b4abb00f727a66.

  for applications written or generated.

RBAC authorization is crucial but

> [cannot be specific enough on the Pods resource](/docs/concepts/security/rbac-good-practices/#workload-creation)

Author: Yes, this is detailed in the following sentences and in the hyperlinks. I'm not sure how I could rephrase it.

> [cannot be specific enough on the Pods resource](/docs/concepts/security/rbac-good-practices/#workload-creation)

Reviewer 9: I think we can just rephrase it just the way I said it, tbh (unless you have alternate suggestions)

```suggestion
[cannot be specific to pods, resources, anything that manages pods](/docs/concepts/security/rbac-good-practices/#workload-creation)
```

> [cannot be specific enough on the Pods resource](/docs/concepts/security/rbac-good-practices/#workload-creation)

Author: I'm not sure what you imply by putting "resources" apart like that. The idea was to explain that RBAC cannot be granular enough to have authorization on the pod security part in the PodSpec. And because it concerns pods, it also concerns all the resources that will end in the creation of a pod, like a Deployment, a DaemonSet, etc...

> [cannot be specific enough on the Pods resource](/docs/concepts/security/rbac-good-practices/#workload-creation)

Reviewer 9: I am sorry that was my bad. Does this make sense @mtardy ?
```suggestion
[cannot be granular enough to have authorization on the Pods' resources](/docs/concepts/security/rbac-good-practices/#workload-creation)
```

> [cannot be specific enough on the Pods resource](/docs/concepts/security/rbac-good-practices/#workload-creation)

Author: Thanks a lot!

Mandatory Access Control (MAC) and better auditing through system logs.
To [enable AppArmor in Kubernetes](/docs/tutorials/security/apparmor/), at least
version 1.4 is required. Like seccomp, AppArmor is also configured
through profiles, where each profile is either running in enforcing mode, which
blocks access to disallowed resources or complain mode, which only reports
violations. AppArmor profiles are enforced on a per-container basis, with an
annotation, allowing for processes to gain just the right privileges.

{{< note >}}
AppArmor is only available on Linux nodes, and enabled in
[some Linux distributions](https://gitlab.com/apparmor/apparmor/-/wikis/home#distributions-and-ports).
{{< /note >}}

## Pod placement

- [ ] Pod placement is done in accordance to the tiers of sensivity of the
  application.
- [ ] Sensitive applications are running isolated on nodes or with specific
  sandboxed runtimes.

Pods that could be considered different tiers of sensitivity, for example an
application pod and the Kubernetes API server, should be deployed onto separate
nodes. This separation should be enforced to prevent pods accidentally being

> deployed onto the same node. This could be enforced with the following features:

Author: Tried to fix this here https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/33992/commits/2718053a0edc1bf52c165749302ad5af7d52a71b.

[Node Selectors](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/assign-pod-node/)
: Key-value pairs as part of the pod specification that specifies which nodes to
deploy onto. These can be enforced at the namespace and cluster level with the
[PodNodeSelector](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/#podnodeselector)
admission controller.

[PodTolerationRestriction](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/#podtolerationrestriction)
: An admission controller that allows administrators to add permitted
[tolerations](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/taint-and-toleration/) within a

> namespace. Pods within that namespace may only utilise those specified in the

Author: I did not write this part and I admit it's a bit confusing! Might change it!

> namespace. Pods within that namespace may only utilise those specified in the

Author: Changed it here https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/33992/commits/c9dadb915acd33ea04b33ea5e89b01f7134fcb92.

This should be done preferentially as compared to providing the pods service
account RBAC access to secrets. This would allow adding secrets into the pod as
environment variables or files. Please note that the environment variable method
might be more prone to leakage due to crash dumps in logs and the
non-confidential nature of environment variable in Linux, as opposed to the
permission mechanism on files.

Service account tokens should not be mounted into pods that do not require them. This can be configured by setting
[`automountServiceAccountToken`](/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/#use-the-default-service-account-to-access-the-api-server)
to `false` either within the service account to apply throughout the namespace
or specifically for a pod. For Kubernetes v1.22 and above, use
[Bound Service Accounts](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/service-accounts-admin/#bound-service-account-token-volume)
for time-bound service account credentials.

## Images

- [ ] Container images contain only the bare minimum.
- [ ] Container images are configured to be run as unprivileged user.

> - [ ] References to container images are made by sha256 digests and not by tags.

Author: Thanks a lot @raesene! Added stuff here https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/33992/commits/beaf148623b923376c34121df82d0cd94693f3b4.

- [ ] Container images are regularly scanned during creation and in deployment, and
  known vulnerable software is patched.

Container image should contain the bare minimum to run the program they
package. Preferably, only the program and its dependencies, building the image
from the minimal possible base. In particular, image used in production should not
contain shells or debugging utilities, as an
[ephemeral debug container](/docs/tasks/debug/debug-application/debug-running-pod/#ephemeral-container)
can be used for troubleshooting.

Build images to directly start with an underprivileged user by using the
[`USER` instruction in Dockerfile](https://docs.docker.com/develop/develop-images/dockerfile_best-practices/#user).
The [Security Context](/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/security-context/#set-the-security-context-for-a-pod)
allows a container image to be started with a specific user and group with
`runAsUser` and `runAsGroup`, even if not specified in the image manifest.

> However the file permissions in the image layers might make impossible to just

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
However, the file permissions in the image layers might make it impossible to just
```

prevention in the container image, such as a
[Common Vulnerability Scoring System (CVSS)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Common_Vulnerability_Scoring_System)
score. If the result of the image scans is combined with the pipeline
compliance rules, only properly patched container images will end up in
Production.

## Admission controllers

- [ ] An appropriate selection of admission controllers is enabled.
- [ ] A pod security policy is enforced by the Pod Security Admission or/and a
  webhook admission controller.
- [ ] The admission chain plugins and webhooks are securly configured.

Admission controllers can help to improve the security of the cluster. However,
they can present risks themselves as they extend the API server and
[should be properly secured](/blog/2022/01/19/secure-your-admission-controllers-and-webhooks/).

The following list present a number of admission controllers that could be
considered to enhance the security posture of your cluster and application. It
includes controllers that may be referenced in other parts of this document:

[`AlwaysPullImages`](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/#alwayspullimages)

> : Enforces the latest version of a tagged image is used, and that the deployer

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
: Enforces the usage of the latest version of a tagged image and ensures that the deployer
```

has permissions to use the image.

[`CertificateApproval`](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/#certificateapproval)
: Performs additional authorization checks to ensure the approving user has
permission to approve certificate request.

[`CertificateSigning`](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/#certificatesigning)

> : Performs an additional authorization checks to ensure the signing user has

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
: Performs additional authorization checks to ensure the signing user has
```

permission to sign certificate requests.

[`CertificateSubjectRestriction`](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/#certificatesubjectrestriction)
: Rejects any certificate request that specifies a 'group' (or 'organization
attribute') of `system:masters`.

[`DenyServiceExternalIPs`](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/#denyserviceexternalips)
: Prevents usage of `externalIPs` services.

[`EventRateLimit`](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/#eventratelimit)
: Rate limits adding new Events to the API server.

[`ImagePolicyWebhook`](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/#imagepolicywebhook)
: Allows enforcing additional controls for images through webhooks.

[`MutatingAdmissionWebhook`](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/#mutatingadmissionwebhook)
: Allows the use of custom controllers through webhooks, these controllers may
mutate requests that it reviews.

[`NodeRestriction`](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/#noderestriction)

> : Restricts kubelet's permissions to only modify the pods API resources they own or

Reviewer 9: This is a bit confusing. Do we mean to say that this restricts kubelet's permissions to only modify the pods' API resources they own or the pods' resources themselves?
```suggestion
: Restricts kubelet's permissions to only modify the pods API resources they own or
```

Author: Ok! https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/33992/commits/791a833bb17731781e8ba4bc875422e8d56b4277.

> themselves. It also prevents kubelet to use the `node-restriction.kubernetes.io/`

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
themselves. It also prevents kubelet from using the `node-restriction.kubernetes.io/`
```

- [ ] Intermediate and leaf certificates have an expiry date no more than 3
  years in the future.
- [ ] A process exists for periodic access review, and reviews occur no more
  than 24 months apart.

See the [Role Based Access Control Good Practices](/docs/concepts/security/rbac-good-practices/)
for guidance related to authentication and authorization.

After bootstrapping, neither users nor components should authenticate to the
Kubernetes API as `system:masters`. Similarly, running all of
kube-controller-manager as `system:masters` should be avoided. In fact,
`system:masters` should only be used as a break-glass mechanism, as opposed to
an admin user.

## Network security

- [ ] CNI plugins in-use supports network policies.
- [ ] Ingress and egress network policies are applied to all workloads in the
  cluster.
- [ ] Default network policies within each namespace, selecting all pods, denying
  everything, are in place.
- [ ] Use of a service mesh to encrypt all communications inside of the cluster.
- [ ] The Kubernetes API, kubelet API and etcd are not exposed publicly on Internet.
- [ ] Access from the workloads to the cloud metadata API is filtered.

> 

Reviewer 10: Given the potential for [MITM via CVE-2020-8554](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/97076), it may be worth adding:

- [ ] Access to LoadBalancer and ExternalIPs is restricted - or allowed to specific use cases.

Author: Thanks a lot for pointing this out! I added more details here https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/33992/commits/f183611012e65b71decdd4d943b0b062437379e0.

---

> reviewers:

Author: Yes sure, but are there any other fields you know I should add to the front matter?

> reviewers:

Reviewer 11: Rest of the existing fields are good, afaik

should be separately investigated to limit the privileges and access pods may have.

[Memory and CPU limits](/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-resources-containers/)
should be set in order to restrict the memory and CPU resources a pod can
consume on a node, and therefore prevent potential DoS attacks. It can be
enforced by an admission controller.

### Enabling Seccomp

Seccomp can improve the security of your workloads by reducing the Linux kernel
syscall attack surface available inside containers. The seccomp filter mode
leverages BPF to create an allow or deny list of specific syscalls, named
profiles. Those seccomp profiles can be enabled on individual workloads,
[a security tutorial is available](/docs/tutorials/security/seccomp/). In
addition, the [Kubernetes Security Profiles Operator](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/security-profiles-operator)
is a project to facilitate the management and use of seccomp in clusters.

Please note that Docker has been using
[a default seccomp profile](https://docs.docker.com/engine/security/seccomp/)
to only allow a restricted set of syscalls but Kubernetes is still not

> confining workloads by default. Fortunately,

Reviewer 11: It might be worth replacing this with containerd specific content with the dockershim deprecation and removal being complete.

Reviewer 11: Here's the default seccomp profile for containerd: https://github.com/containerd/containerd/blob/main/contrib/seccomp/seccomp_default.go

Author: Ok, I see! At first, I added that has historical context on the topic because I think Docker was one of the first to do that, and the idea was to say, "it was implemented way before Kubernetes and people should not assume it's present in Kubernetes".

Author: I tried to address that here https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/33992/commits/94bdce3c7c42526bd6649646cfc4a69c39d4eadd.

[Seccomp Default](/blog/2021/08/25/seccomp-default/), a new alpha feature to
use a default seccomp profile for all workloads can now be enabled and tested.

{{< note >}}
Seccomp is only available on Linux nodes.
{{< /note >}}

### Enabling AppArmor or SELinux

#### AppArmor

[AppArmor](https://apparmor.net/) is a Linux kernel security module that can
provide an easy way to implement Mandatory Access Control (MAC) and better
auditing through system logs. To [enable AppArmor in Kubernetes](/docs/tutorials/security/apparmor/),
at least version 1.4 is required. Like seccomp, AppArmor is also configured
through profiles, where each profile is either running in enforcing mode, which
blocks access to disallowed resources or complain mode, which only reports
violations. AppArmor profiles are enforced on a per-container basis, with an
annotation, allowing for processes to gain just the right privileges.

{{< note >}}
AppArmor is only available on Linux nodes, and enabled in
[some Linux distributions](https://gitlab.com/apparmor/apparmor/-/wikis/home#distributions-and-ports).
{{< /note >}}

#### SELinux

> [SELinux](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Security-Enhanced_Linux) is also a

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
[SELinux](http://selinuxproject.org/page/Main_Page) is also a
```

Author: I wanted to add that link at first but the page states "Note: This site is now somewhat historical: please visit https://github.com/SELinuxProject for up-to-date development information.". And the recommended link is a GitHub organization so I thought Wikipedia description would be better.

Reviewer 11: Hmm I definitely missed the note on their page. I think it's okay to link to this: https://github.com/SELinuxProject/selinux or wiki

Author: Ok I guess it would Wikipedia or the SELinux notebook like this https://github.com/SELinuxProject/selinux-notebook/blob/main/src/selinux_overview.md for example. Because the user libraries and tools repo does not provide a lot of information about the general idea behind SELinux.

Author: ```suggestion
[SELinux](https://github.com/SELinuxProject/selinux-notebook/blob/main/src/selinux_overview.md) is also a
```

Reviewer 11: Yes I love this update to SELinux notebook!! It also seems recently updated so less chance of it being stale

the namespace object annotation keys that provide a set of default and allowed
tolerations.

[RuntimeClass](/docs/concepts/containers/runtime-class/)
: RuntimeClass is a feature for selecting the container runtime configuration.
The container runtime configuration is used to run a Pod's containers and can
provide more or less isolation from the host at the cost of performance
overhead.

## Secrets

- [ ] ConfigMaps are not used to hold confidential data.
- [ ] Encryption at rest is configured for the Secret API.
- [ ] A mechanism to inject secrets stored in third party storage is deployed
  and available.
- [ ] Service account tokens are not mounted in pods that don't require them.
- [ ] [Bound service account token volume](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/service-accounts-admin/#bound-service-account-token-volume)
  is in-use instead of non-expiring tokens.

Secrets required for pods should be stored within Kubernetes Secrets as opposed
to alternatives such as ConfigMap. Secret resources stored within etcd should
be [encrypted at rest](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/encrypt-data/).

Pods needing secrets should have these automatically mounted through volumes,

> preferably stored in memory like with the [`emptyDir.medium` option](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#emptydir).

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
preferably stored in memory like with the [`emptyDir.medium` option](/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#emptydir).
```

[Bound Service Accounts](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/service-accounts-admin/#bound-service-account-token-volume)
for time-bound service account credentials.

## Images

- [ ] Container images contain only the bare minimum.
- [ ] Container images are configured to be run as unprivileged user.
- [ ] References to container images are made by sha256 digests (rather than
tags) or the provenance of the image is validated by verifying the image's
digital signature at deploy time [via admission control](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/verify-signed-images/#verifying-image-signatures-with-admission-controller).
- [ ] Container images are regularly scanned during creation and in deployment, and
  known vulnerable software is patched.

Container image should contain the bare minimum to run the program they
package. Preferably, only the program and its dependencies, building the image
from the minimal possible base. In particular, image used in production should not
contain shells or debugging utilities, as an
[ephemeral debug container](/docs/tasks/debug/debug-application/debug-running-pod/#ephemeral-container)
can be used for troubleshooting.

> Build images to directly start with an underprivileged user by using the

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
Build images to directly start with an unprivileged user by using the
```

[`USER` instruction in Dockerfile](https://docs.docker.com/develop/develop-images/dockerfile_best-practices/#user).
The [Security Context](/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/security-context/#set-the-security-context-for-a-pod)
allows a container image to be started with a specific user and group with
`runAsUser` and `runAsGroup`, even if not specified in the image manifest.
However, the file permissions in the image layers might make it impossible to just
start the process with a new unprivileged user without image modification.

Avoid using image tags to reference an image, especially the `latest` tag, the
image behind a tag can be easily modified in a registry. Prefer using the

> complete sha256 digest which is unique to the image manifest. This policy can be

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
complete `sha256` digest which is unique to the image manifest. This policy can be
```

enforced via an [ImagePolicyWebhook](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/#imagepolicywebhook).
Image signatures can also be automatically [verified with an admission controller](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/verify-signed-images/#verifying-image-signatures-with-admission-controller)
at deploy time to validate their authenticity and integrity.

Scanning a container image can prevent critical vulnerabilities from being
deployed to the cluster alongside the container image. Image scanning should be
completed before deploying a container image to a cluster and is usually done
as part of the deployment process in a CI/CD pipeline. The purpose of an image
scan is to obtain information about possible vulnerabilities and their
prevention in the container image, such as a

> [Common Vulnerability Scoring System (CVSS)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Common_Vulnerability_Scoring_System)

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
[Common Vulnerability Scoring System (CVSS)](https://www.first.org/cvss/)
```

and is meant to evolve.

The order of topics does not reflect an order of priority.

{{< caution >}}
Checklists are **not** sufficient for attaining a good security posture on their
own. A good security posture requires constant attention and improvement, but a
checklist can be the first step on the never-ending journey towards security
preparedness. Some of the recommendations in this checklist may be too
restrictive or too lax for your specific security needs. Since Kubernetes
security is not "one size fits all", each category of checklist items should be
evaluated on its merits.
{{< /caution >}}

<!-- body -->

## Authentication & Authorization

- [ ] `system:masters` group is not used for user or component authentication after bootstrapping.
- [ ] The kube-controller-manager is running with `--use-service-account-credentials`
  enabled.
- [ ] The root certificate is protected (either an offline CA, or a managed
  online CA with effective access controls).
- [ ] Intermediate and leaf certificates have an expiry date no more than 3
  years in the future.
- [ ] A process exists for periodic access review, and reviews occur no more

>   than 24 months apart.

Author: There is none to my knowledge, I think this part was inspired by @sftim, do you have any more information or should we be less precise and maybe specify a broader interval like "a few years" and why...

See the [Role Based Access Control Good Practices](/docs/concepts/security/rbac-good-practices/)
for guidance related to authentication and authorization.

After bootstrapping, neither users nor components should authenticate to the
Kubernetes API as `system:masters`. Similarly, running all of
kube-controller-manager as `system:masters` should be avoided. In fact,
`system:masters` should only be used as a break-glass mechanism, as opposed to
an admin user.

## Network security

- [ ] CNI plugins in-use supports network policies.
- [ ] Ingress and egress network policies are applied to all workloads in the
  cluster.
- [ ] Default network policies within each namespace, selecting all pods, denying
  everything, are in place.

> - [ ] Use of a service mesh to encrypt all communications inside of the cluster.

Reviewer 4: I don't think so. At the top of the page there is a bit of a disclaimer that states:
>Some of the recommendations in this checklist may be too
restrictive or too lax for your specific security needs. Since Kubernetes
security is not "one size fits all", each category of checklist items should be
evaluated on its merits.

> - [ ] Use of a service mesh to encrypt all communications inside of the cluster.

Reviewer 6: We could ship this as-is, and then file an issue to see if there's some even better way to word this particular item.

> - [ ] Use of a service mesh to encrypt all communications inside of the cluster.

Author: I agree on this topic, and the other pointed out [here](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/33992#discussion_r952810587). But I think the idea of putting the information about service mesh and secrets injectors was to highlight that this might be a sensitive part of the cluster that might require extra care in some situations. But indeed it's impossible to write a threat model that would suit every Kubernetes cluster usage, I will try to rephrase this with something like "consider using".

> - [ ] Use of a service mesh to encrypt all communications inside of the cluster.

Author: ```suggestion
- [ ] If appropriate, a service mesh is used to encrypt all communications inside of the cluster.
```

functionality.

The etcd datastore of the control plane should have controls to limit access and
not be publicly exposed on the Internet. Furthermore, mutual TLS (mTLS) should
be used to communicate securely with it. The certificate authority for this
should be unique to etcd.

External Internet access to the Kubernetes API server should be restricted to
not expose the API publicly. Be careful as many managed Kubernetes distribution
are publicly exposing the API server by default. You can then use a bastion host
to access the server.

The [kubelet](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/kubelet/) API access
should be restricted and not publicly exposed, the defaults authentication and
authorization settings, when no configuration file specified with the `--config`
flag, are overly permissive.

If a cloud provider is used for hosting Kubernetes, the access from pods to the cloud
metadata API `169.254.169.254` should also be restricted or blocked if not needed
because it may leak information.

## Pod security

- [ ] RBAC rights to `create`, `update`, `patch`, `delete` workloads is only granted if necessary.
- [ ] Appropriate pod security is enforced for all workloads.

> - [ ] Memory and CPU limits are set for the workloads.

Reviewer 12: are CPU limits what sig-node generally recommends? I recall statements from @thockin (https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/CCK68P2Q2/p1635481230061400?thread_ts=1635389636.029000&cid=CCK68P2Q2) like:

> I advise: always set memory limit = request.  Never set cpu limit.
>
> Setting memory lim > req exposes the whole node to OOM risk.  Setting cpu lim saves almost nothing and costs plenty at the edges

Reviewer 6: I suppose the risk of not setting a CPU limit is that one namespace can (try to) DoS the cluster. Is that what we were thinking of?

Reviewer 12: maybe? I just want to make sure we don't offer contradictory advice as a project... "definitely set X or you're insecure ... definitely don't set X, it doesn't work well"

Author: Ok I read the thread from thockin and it's not really a piece of advice from a security perspective but from efficiency/making autoscaling work view. I agree with sftim that CPU limit can avoid breached pods to DoS the entire node they are running on but on the other side, it can bring some usability concerns. 

Anyway, the security vs usability perspective seems contradictory on that topic. Maybe I can just add more information and context regarding that advice from thockin.

Author: ```suggestion
- [ ] Memory limit is set for the workloads with a limit equal or inferior to the request. 
   Memory limit superior to request can expose the whole node to OOM issues.
- [ ] CPU limits are set on sensitive workloads to protect against the potential consumption
   of all the CPU resources on a node by a single process. Please note that CPU limits will 
   throttle usage and thus can have unintended effects on auto-scaling features or efficiency 
   i.e. running the process in best effort with the CPU resource available.
```
Maybe this is a bit too long for a checklist item and we should elaborate in a paragraph below.

Author: I tried something here https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/33992/commits/0e81bfd8eff2d1149dfb9ebf3679632f6b3dcba2.

- [ ] For nodes that support it, Seccomp is enabled with appropriate syscalls
  profile for programs.
- [ ] For nodes that support it, AppArmor or SELinux is enabled with appropriate
  profile for programs.

RBAC authorization is crucial but
[cannot be granular enough to have authorization on the Pods' resources](/docs/concepts/security/rbac-good-practices/#workload-creation)
(or on any resource that manages Pods). The only granularity is the API verbs
on the resource itself, for example, `create` on Pods. Without
additional admission, the authorization to create these resources allows direct
unrestricted access to the schedulable nodes of a cluster.

[Pod Security Admission](/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-admission/) is an
admission controller to enable fine-grained authorization of Pod creation and

> updates. It replaces the Pod Security Policy admission controller.

Author: ```suggestion
updates. It replaces the PodSecurityPolicy admission controller.
```

The [Pod Security Standards](/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-standards/)
define three different policies that restrict how fields can be set in the `PodSpec`.
For a hands-on tutorial on Pod Security, see the blog post
"[Kubernetes 1.23: Pod Security Graduates to Beta](/blog/2021/12/09/pod-security-admission-beta/)".

> {{< note >}}
> [PodSecurityPolicy](/docs/concepts/policy/pod-security-policy/)
> will be removed in version 1.25.
> {{< /note >}}

Author: ```suggestion
```

deploy onto. These can be enforced at the namespace and cluster level with the
[PodNodeSelector](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/#podnodeselector)
admission controller.

[PodTolerationRestriction](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/#podtolerationrestriction)
: An admission controller that allows administrators to restrict permitted
[tolerations](/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/taint-and-toleration/) within a
namespace. Pods within a namespace may only utilize the tolerations specified on
the namespace object annotation keys that provide a set of default and allowed
tolerations.

[RuntimeClass](/docs/concepts/containers/runtime-class/)
: RuntimeClass is a feature for selecting the container runtime configuration.
The container runtime configuration is used to run a Pod's containers and can
provide more or less isolation from the host at the cost of performance
overhead.

## Secrets

- [ ] ConfigMaps are not used to hold confidential data.
- [ ] Encryption at rest is configured for the Secret API.
- [ ] A mechanism to inject secrets stored in third party storage is deployed

>   and available.

Reviewer 4: See comment below.

> - [ ] A mechanism to inject secrets stored in third party storage is deployed
>   and available.

Author: ```suggestion
- [ ] If appropriate, a mechanism to inject secrets stored in third-party storage is deployed
  and available.
```

Mechanism can be used to also inject secrets from third-party storages as
volume, like the [Secrets Store CSI Driver](https://secrets-store-csi-driver.sigs.k8s.io/).
This should be done preferentially as compared to providing the pods service
account RBAC access to secrets. This would allow adding secrets into the pod as
environment variables or files. Please note that the environment variable method
might be more prone to leakage due to crash dumps in logs and the
non-confidential nature of environment variable in Linux, as opposed to the
permission mechanism on files.

Service account tokens should not be mounted into pods that do not require them. This can be configured by setting
[`automountServiceAccountToken`](/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/#use-the-default-service-account-to-access-the-api-server)
to `false` either within the service account to apply throughout the namespace
or specifically for a pod. For Kubernetes v1.22 and above, use
[Bound Service Accounts](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/service-accounts-admin/#bound-service-account-token-volume)
for time-bound service account credentials.

## Images

> - [ ] Container images contain only the bare minimum.

Author: ```suggestion
- [ ] Minimize unnecessary content in container images.
```

completed before deploying a container image to a cluster and is usually done
as part of the deployment process in a CI/CD pipeline. The purpose of an image
scan is to obtain information about possible vulnerabilities and their
prevention in the container image, such as a
[Common Vulnerability Scoring System (CVSS)](https://www.first.org/cvss/)
score. If the result of the image scans is combined with the pipeline
compliance rules, only properly patched container images will end up in
Production.

## Admission controllers

- [ ] An appropriate selection of admission controllers is enabled.
- [ ] A pod security policy is enforced by the Pod Security Admission or/and a
  webhook admission controller.
- [ ] The admission chain plugins and webhooks are securly configured.

Admission controllers can help to improve the security of the cluster. However,
they can present risks themselves as they extend the API server and
[should be properly secured](/blog/2022/01/19/secure-your-admission-controllers-and-webhooks/).

The following list present a number of admission controllers that could be
considered to enhance the security posture of your cluster and application. It

> includes controllers that may be referenced in other parts of this document:

Reviewer 6: What's our view on LimitRanger?

> includes controllers that may be referenced in other parts of this document:

Reviewer 12: can include that in the "on by default, leave enabled unless you know what you're doing" group... I can't remember if there are security implications of that one or not

> includes controllers that may be referenced in other parts of this document:

Author: @liggitt EventRateLimit is in alpha as PodNodeSelector and PodTolerationRestriction. Why do you think we should keep EventRateLimit but not the other two?

> includes controllers that may be referenced in other parts of this document:

Reviewer 12: > Why do you think we should keep EventRateLimit but not the other two?

Good catch. I don't, so I'd drop that one as well :)

> includes controllers that may be referenced in other parts of this document:

Author: Thanks a lot for the help, I tried a reorganization here https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/33992/commits/f14a7544e5130128cf0d8f57a2db98359221c023. Are you sure that alpha plugins should not be mentioned at all?

> includes controllers that may be referenced in other parts of this document:

Reviewer 12: I don't think we should include alpha features in a list we're encouraging/recommending people run in production

{{< caution >}}
Memory limit superior to request can expose the whole node to OOM issues.
{{< /caution >}}

### Enabling Seccomp

Seccomp can improve the security of your workloads by reducing the Linux kernel
syscall attack surface available inside containers. The seccomp filter mode
leverages BPF to create an allow or deny list of specific syscalls, named
profiles. Those seccomp profiles can be enabled on individual workloads,
[a security tutorial is available](/docs/tutorials/security/seccomp/). In
addition, the [Kubernetes Security Profiles Operator](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/security-profiles-operator)
is a project to facilitate the management and use of seccomp in clusters.

For historical context, please note that Docker has been using
[a default seccomp profile](https://docs.docker.com/engine/security/seccomp/)
to only allow a restricted set of syscalls since 2016 from
[Docker Engine 1.10](https://www.docker.com/blog/docker-engine-1-10-security/),
but Kubernetes is still not confining workloads by default. The default seccomp
profile can be found [in containerd](https://github.com/containerd/containerd/blob/main/contrib/seccomp/seccomp_default.go)

> as well. Fortunately, [Seccomp Default](/blog/2021/08/25/seccomp-default/), a
> new alpha feature to use a default seccomp profile for all workloads can now be
> enabled and tested.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
as well.
```

and then in the What's Next section, link to https://k8s.io/docs/tutorials/security/seccomp/#enable-the-use-of-runtimedefault-as-the-default-seccomp-profile-for-all-workloads

or specifically for a pod. For Kubernetes v1.22 and above, use
[Bound Service Accounts](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/service-accounts-admin/#bound-service-account-token-volume)
for time-bound service account credentials.

## Images

- [ ] Minimize unnecessary content in container images.
- [ ] Container images are configured to be run as unprivileged user.
- [ ] References to container images are made by sha256 digests (rather than
tags) or the provenance of the image is validated by verifying the image's
digital signature at deploy time [via admission control](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/verify-signed-images/#verifying-image-signatures-with-admission-controller).
- [ ] Container images are regularly scanned during creation and in deployment, and
  known vulnerable software is patched.

Container image should contain the bare minimum to run the program they
package. Preferably, only the program and its dependencies, building the image
from the minimal possible base. In particular, image used in production should not
contain shells or debugging utilities, as an
[ephemeral debug container](/docs/tasks/debug/debug-application/debug-running-pod/#ephemeral-container)

> can be used for troubleshooting.

Reviewer 6: We should explain and recommend multistage builds as _one_ technique that helps minimize what gets included.

The blog post
[A Closer Look at NSA/CISA Kubernetes Hardening Guidance](/blog/2021/10/05/nsa-cisa-kubernetes-hardening-guidance/#building-secure-container-images)
## Admission Controllers

The following are a number of admission controllers that could be considered to
enhance the security posture of your application. This list includes
controllers that may be referenced in other parts of this document:

> 

Reviewer 6: Style tip: avoid “ASCII art”; use HTML or Markdown to imply structure.

Try a [definition list](https://www.markdownguide.org/extended-syntax/#definition-lists).

Reviewer 6: Ah, I hadn't worked out that intent there.
I would still use a definition list, mind.

Author: You are right I will convert it then, thanks a lot!! :)

Author: This is way better thanks! https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/33992/commits/7748826f85e8170b1f25be1251d155812f7ac507

- [`AlwaysPullImages`](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/#alwayspullimages)
  \- Enforces the latest version of a tagged image is used, and the deployer has
    permissions to use the image.
- [`CertificateApproval`](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/#certificateapproval)
  \- Performs additional authorization checks to ensure the approving user has
    permission to approve certificate request.
- [`CertificateSigning`](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/#certificatesigning)
  \- Performs an additional authorization checks to ensure the signing user has
    permission to sign certificate requests.
- [`CertificateSubjectRestriction`](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/#certificatesubjectrestriction)
  \- Rejects any certificate request that specifies a 'group' (or 'organization attribute')
    of `system:masters`.
- [`DenyServiceExternalIPs`](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/#denyserviceexternalips)
  \- Prevents usage of `externalIPs` services
- [`EventRateLimit`](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/#eventratelimit)

>   \- Rate limts events to the API server.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
  \- Rate limits adding new Events to the API server.
```
?
